So what happens as part of our sign-up process?
Well it's not too different from the login process.
We had a switchMap so that we can return a new observable
and we know that we'll get a sign-up action here in the end, which is of type auth actions
sign-up start, which holds that e-mail and password we need.
Then let's go to the auth service and there in the sign-up method,
let's grab this code where we use the Angular HttpClient and use it here in auth effects.
Let's extract e-mail from the sign-up
action.payload and the same of course for the password,
it's also coming from sign-up
action.payload password and with that, we're sending this request
to create a new user.
Now just as for logging in,
we now have to handle both the success and the error
case. Now for that,
I'll copy that pipe method here and add it to that inner observable for the same reason as before, to
not break the overall effects observable.
So I copy that and added it to the sign-up chain because when we do login, I want to do the same
and when we have an error, I want to do the same.
Now obviously if we do the same, then duplicating that code is really not that smart.
So instead, let's rather create our own helper functions again, store it in constants maybe, handle authentication
which is an arrow function that does something and handle error which is an arrow function that does
something. Now this might look familiar to you,
we did the same in the service because it is the same logic,
now just a bit of a different logic but in the end, still the same for logging in and for signing up.
So handle authentication should hold the code we have in here, in map.
Let's cut it and add it in there
and for this to work, we just need to get the expires in value, which should already be a number,
the e-mail, the user ID and the token and these should all be strings, so e-mail is a string, user ID
a string, token is a string.
So we're getting these inputs so that we can use them here, like this,
remove res data, it's now user ID instead of local ID
and it's token instead of ID token. We're returning our new action here,
we're getting all these inputs, that means now here for map, we can just call handle authentication and
forward all that data,
so that would be res data, expires in with a plus in front of it to convert to a number, res data
e-mail, res data
local ID for the user ID and res data ID token.
This is handle authentication, for the error,
it's kind of similar,
let's wrap this entire code here and move that into handle error here.
All I need here is my error response which I'll set to type any for now,
then we have the same logic as before in here and in catch error,
all we have to do is we have to call handle error and forward that error response.
One important note though, we need to return observables or here, a value in map and here in catch
error, an observable.
So we need to return the results of these function calls because inside of the functions, we are returning
an observable and an action, so let's return handle authentication and let's return handle error
and now we can copy that and use the exact same for logging in,
saving a lot of duplicate code.
So here I return handle authentication and for the error,
I do the same,
remove all that code and just return handle error. That is the sign-up process added
and now again, we can see the advantage of NgRx kicking in,
the rest should now work correct the automatically. In auth component,
there is nothing we need to change,
we can actually remove the auth observable now, also not set isLoading to true here and instead of
assigning anything to auth observable, here we now instead call this store dispatch and dispatch a new
sign-up start action where we need to pass in an object with our e-mail and with our password,
so just like we're doing it for logging in and that is it. We can remove this commented out part,
obviously we still want to reset the forms, we leave that here. onHandleError,
that is something we should improve because right now, I'm only resetting it here in the interface, not
in the state,
so in the NgRx state I mean, would be better to do it
in the NgRx state only
but that's a minor thing,
other than that, it's looking good.
So some tweaks we still should do
but now let's save that and let's give that a try.
Let's reload and let's try creating a new user which already exists,
we get an error, that's good.
Let's create a new user,
that worked.
Now what you might have seen is that we're missing the loading spinner and there also are a couple of
other smaller things I want to tweak,
so let's do that next.